Many changes have been put in place over the past year with regard to how we construct, renovate, and maintain our kingdom halls.
Have you wondered why changes have been made?
What do these changes mean?
And how can you have a share?
In January 2015, a video meeting was held with all elders in the United States explaining the new arrangement for building kingdom halls.
We are confident you will enjoy excerpts from that program since these changes are being implemented around the world.
We are happy to bring this to you on JW Broadcasting.
Bible prophecy indicates that the work of the earthly part of Jehovah's Organization will accelerate.
This requires many changes as we near the end of the system of things.
This is highlighted in Isaiah's prophecy, recorded in Isaiah chapter 60.
Verse 16 tells us that we would make use of the valuable resources of the nations in order to advance pure worship.
Verse 17 explains that progressive change would improve upon the previous arrangement, copper to gold, iron to silver.
And this would culminate in what is said in verse 22.
The little one will become a thousand and the small one, a mighty nation, I myself, Jehovah will speed it up in its own time.
We see these prophecies coming true.
It is thrilling to see what Jehovah is accomplishing in these last days.
As we know, however, all this advancement has a direct impact on our facilities.
As a number of kingdom proclaimers increase, more kingdom halls, assembly halls, school facilities, remote translation offices, and the expansion of branch complexes are needed.
Thus in October 2013, the governing body made sweeping adjustments to our work of designing, building, renovating, and maintaining our facilities.
The objective is to speed up the work in the most cost effective manner possible.
Included in this adjustment was a change to our approach for kingdom hall, construction, renovation of maintenance.
Why was a change needed in these areas?
There is a tremendous need for new and renovated kingdom halls around the world.
In fact, currently, there's a need for over 14,200 new kingdom hall and renovation projects.
While much of the program that follows is specific to the implementation in the United States,
the process described as being carried out by all of our branches around the world.
This first report highlights the great need in the United States branch territory.
Thanks to Jehovah's blessing, we've seen outstanding growth in our branch territory.
This has led to numerous kingdom halls being used to their capacity and beyond.
For example, while there are many kingdom hall auditoriums in the United States branch territory that are attended by three congregations or less,
there are hundreds of kingdom halls that have auditoriums that are used by four congregations, and still hundreds more that are used by five or more congregations for auditorium.
Many of these kingdom halls are attended by multiple foreign language groups as well.
How critical is the situation?
Let's consider a few statistics specific to the United States branch territory as a whole.
There are 977 kingdom halls with auditoriums used by four to six congregations.
These kingdom halls are located in 602 different cities and are attended by over 455,000 publishers.
This represents nearly 35% of all publishers in the branch territory.
Let's now consider just three of the many metropolitan areas in our branch territory that have an acute need.
Los Angeles, California, Dallas, Fourthworth, Texas, and Miami-Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
In and around Los Angeles, California, there are 131 kingdom halls with auditoriums used by four to six congregations.
In and around Dallas, Fourthworth, Texas, there are 40 kingdom halls with auditoriums attended by four to six congregations.
In the greater Miami-Fort Lauderdale, Florida metropolitan area, there are 48 kingdom halls with auditoriums used by four to six congregations.
Now let's consider one specific example near Miami, Florida.
There, within a 1.5 mile radius, there are two double auditorium and two single auditorium kingdom halls.
These four kingdom halls are attended each week by a total of 29 congregations representing 3,200 publishers.
What a need!
In these and many more areas throughout the United States branch territory, the lack of sufficient or suitable kingdom halls has become so severe that it is negatively impacting meeting attendance
and is restricting growth.
With a problem so large, we need Jehovah's help to solve it.
How exciting it will be to see Jehovah act quickly to provide the kingdom halls that are needed to make overcrowding a distant memory.
As the governing body considered these needs and reports from around the world, it became apparent that a change was needed.
Thus in October 2013, it was announced that a new arrangement for kingdom halls under the oversight of the publishing committee of the governing body would be put in place.
What does this mean? This next report explains the organizational adjustments.
The early formation of the Regional Building Committee arrangement began to loosely take shape in the early 1980s.
However, general guidelines outlining the structure of the program were produced in 1985.
Then in 1989, the arrangement became even more formalized as it began to be implemented on a real wide scale.
The organizational structure to provide oversight of this program came under the service committee of the governing body.
The service committee would give direction to the service departments in each branch.
A kingdom hall desk was established within the service department to oversee the work of the Regional Building Committees within their branch territory.
Under this arrangement, the Regional Building Committees in the United States branch territory constructed some 4,000 kingdom halls using part-time volunteers.
However, in the late 1990s, it was noticed that under the Regional Building Committee arrangement, some countries were still struggling to keep up with the growing need for new kingdom halls.
In response to this need, the governing body instituted a new program in these countries to provide suitable meeting places at a more rapid rate.
This arrangement became known as the Lands with Limited Resources Program.
Under the Lands with Limited Resources arrangement, the publishing committee of the governing body gave direction to the Design Build Department to develop the program.
A kingdom hall construction desk was established and overseen by Design Build.
That desk would provide oversight to a new category of special full-time servants formed into construction teams of up to eight people called Construction Groups.
Under the Lands with Limited Resources arrangement, over 27,000 kingdom halls were built in just 14 years.
Both of these programs were allowed to run in parallel since 1999.
But as the organization continues to grow, the need for more kingdom halls has become urgent on an unprecedented scale.
For this reason, both programs were evaluated to determine what could be done to extract the best of both systems and come up with one united program worldwide to accelerate construction.
Therefore, at the end of 2013, a new World Headquarters Department was formed under the direction of the publishing committee.
It is called Worldwide Design Construction, or WDC. It is responsible to oversee the scheduling and expediting of Worldwide Construction and renovation projects.
To assist them in this work, four regional design construction departments have been established in different parts of the world as extensions of WDC
to administer construction for the countries in their region. Then in January 2014, the formation of the local design construction department, or LDC, was announced.
This branch-level department is responsible for the design, construction, and maintenance of kingdom halls and assembly halls in each branch territory.
To carry out the work in the field, teams of up to eight people are pointed under the direction of LDC.
These teams, called construction groups, are made up of full-time construction servants and construction volunteers.
With the combining of these two programs, there are no longer regional building committee or lands with limited resources programs.
Instead, there is now one unified program to make the best use of organizational resources to accelerate the construction of much-needed houses of worship throughout the Earth.
With all the work at hand, houses determine which projects to work on and when.
Each branch produces a maintains what is called a master plan. This next segment describes what this means in the United States.
Under the direction of the United States Branch Committee, the local design construction department coordinates the construction, maintenance, and operation of over 6,000 kingdom halls, 50 assembly halls, and 1,300 special full-time servant residences.
And that number will continue to grow.
To meet the needs of the United States Branch territory over the next five years, at least 1,300 new kingdom halls will be constructed and another 1,600 more will be renovated.
To help organize and prioritize this enormous task, a branch-wide master plan has been developed. What is a master plan?
It's a branch-wide plan that provides general locations for new kingdom halls presently needed, along with existing kingdom halls that need major renovation or replacement.
How is a master plan developed?
The process begins with the collection of data. In cooperation with the service department, the LDC collects data on each current kingdom hall.
This includes the number of congregations and language groups using the kingdom hall, the number of publishers in each congregation and language group, the average meeting attendance, forecasted growth, and reports on the physical condition of each building.
By analyzing this information, areas of highest need become evident with high priority given to overcrowded and or severely deteriorated kingdom halls.
Then, all the needs within the branch territory are initially arranged and sorted in a prioritized order. Finally, this list of needs is compiled into a branch-wide master plan and is annually submitted to the branch committee for approval.
Upon approval, the master plan is then provided to the 8 remote LDC offices in the United States Branch territory.
The LDC remote offices then dispatch field representatives to investigate, in-person, each kingdom hall on the list.
The field representatives gather additional information from local elders, circuit overseers, and others about local circumstances that might impact how each need is cared for.
Some of the local information collected that impacts the priority of the need is available vacancy at nearby kingdom halls, the effect of kingdom hall location on meeting attendance, the effects of overcrowding on meeting attendance, and the existing building's condition.
Of course, unexpected events like natural disasters can have an impact too.
Based on the local information gathered, the branch office reprioritizes needs across the entire United States Branch territory.
The most critical needs are prioritized and filled first, and those with less critical needs are filled later.
How nice to know these decisions are not made arbitrarily, but rather objectively and theoretically.
Without a doubt, the needs in our branch territory are immense.
Thankfully, Jehovah has provided direction to develop a master plan that helps organize and prioritize our work.
So, if your congregation has a critical need right now, you can be confident it will be filled quickly in an organized way.
Until then, your continued patience shows generosity toward those with more urgent needs.
In our video meeting with the elders, these introductory comments described why there was a need for change.
Then, two members of the United States Branch Committee provided specific encouragement to the United States' field.
At first, were the Harold Corcoran, a member of the United States Branch Committee and a helper to the publishing committee of the governing body, shared encouraging counsel in his talk, continued to rejoice, to be re-adjusted, to think and agreement.
So, we invite you to open your Bibles to Ecclesiastes chapter 7, and we'll begin there in verse 19.
And we've been talking about wisdom, wisdom from above, and there it says, wisdom makes a wise man more powerful than ten strong men in the city.
When we have wisdom from above that is outlined, for example, there in the book of James chapter 3, well, we're going to be reasonable.
We are going to yield. We're going to be ready to obey. We'll be peaceable.
And all of those fine qualities allows Jehovah's Spirit to flow even further in our lives.
Next, with keen interest, all in attendance pay close attention to Brother Leon Weaver, the coordinator of the United States Branch Committee, and a helper to the service committee of the governing body.
He discussed the need for creating standards to accelerate the growth.
Now, the faithful and discrete slave, the governing body has set a very fine example for us in setting forth arrangements to help us.
If you remember last year, the faithful and discrete slave directed that the former loan arrangement would be done away with.
So, no congregation now owes a loan to this arrangement.
Well, what does this allow? This allows for true equalizing.
Now, each of us individually and our brothers and our congregations can check himself, make a resolution that they're going to support this arrangement in a certain way through their own personal contribution.
The urgency of this need for more kingdom halls has been made abundantly clear.
Do you remember that prophet Isaiah also stated this in Isaiah 54 verse 2.
Make the place of your tent more spacious. Do not hold back.
Lune than out your tent cords and make your tent tend strong.
So, this indicated we'd have this increase and we'd have to hand to it. Deal with it.
Now, to accomplish the direction required takes Jehovah's people addressing this need to build.
In an effort to keep pace with the current building needs, one of the things that has been decided upon is the development of standardized kingdom halls that lead in meeting the objective and that's to accelerate the building of kingdom halls in this time.
The branch committee oversees the establishment of a standard design.
The local design construction department under the direction of the branch committee works with kingdom hall design guidelines provided from headquarters and make sure that it is practical and modest.
Each branch is assisted by the regional design construction department to ensure that standard plans are according to local circumstances.
Let's take a look at the process that was used in the United States to determine what was necessary for a standard kingdom hall design.
In the past, the regional building committees would work with local elders to help to design and come up with the kingdom hall for that area.
Under the new program, one of the things that are exciting is a change in that now the branch committee is responsible for the standard kingdom hall for its territory.
Sometimes when I travel for circular assemblies or kingdom hall dedications, they ask you what is a branch committee, what do you do?
The assignment of the branch committee is to implement the direction that the governing body gives it.
The way I explain it is like a body of elders. We have a group of men and to have oversight of the kingdom work in the scientific territory. And kingdom halls are part of that.
We report directly to the governing body, the various committees of the governing body.
Within each branch, the branch committee begins to determine where do we need kingdom halls? What is a kingdom hall? What kind of kingdom hall?
What's going to go in those kingdom halls? Once you begin to reach a standard, now when you apply the methods, things begin to fall in place, it gets simpler, you need less people, you go faster.
But the only way to do that is to come back to a single source. That single source is the branch committee.
Many of us on the branch committee wondered what part are we going to play in designing a standard kingdom hall?
Obviously we've been attending meetings in kingdom halls for many decades, so we had some background in that regard.
We've been in kingdom halls and have all types of designs. We have seen the good, we have seen the ugly.
We have our traveling brothers who give us input as to things that they think might help the kingdom halls.
We all come from different parts of the country, and a number of us on the branch committee have served in the traveling world.
So we've been in hundreds of kingdom halls over the years.
I know I went to one kingdom hall in San Diego. The kingdom hall sign out front was in five different languages.
That's, of course, big cities, but even smaller cities now.
They're having foreign language group, I would say, in South Dakota, they're forming a group with Napoli.
Well, who would have thought Napoli in South Dakota?
They travel all around, what is their territory? They speak to their brothers, they go to the kingdom halls, they see what's out there.
So with that knowledge, they bring that forward and say, here's what we feel the kingdom halls in the United States would do well with.
As far as experience, we may be in Bethel, but we've got a lot of experience when it comes to kingdom halls and construction.
So you've got 16 men, you would need to find out what do they expect to see in a kingdom hall.
A questionnaire was presented, it had options that a kingdom hall could include.
And through that process, then it enabled the branch committee to begin to go down and select things that they felt absolutely were necessary in a kingdom hall,
versus things that were not absolutely necessary.
And now you begin to refine and focus what should the standard kingdom hall look like and what would the end result be.
It was a five-page document.
And the first thought I had was, why do we need to go through all of this?
Everyone's got their own likes and dislikes.
So a questionnaire is a means to go through and find out where the common denominators are.
This questionnaire really started to prompt our minds.
It was very beneficial, it helped solidify our thinking.
We were able to analyze the various functions that every kingdom hall should have.
It all came to an agreement.
And in the end, our entire branch committee would agree on various aspects of what would go into the standard kingdom hall.
But it was a process getting to that point.
I think having seen the final presentation that the brothers made, I think the entire branch committee felt a great level of confidence that this is a standard design
that is going to be well received by the brothers in the field.
For us to be able to sit there and see what we had worked on for months,
we really felt as though we could take possession of this kingdom hall.
And we expect that our brothers and sisters and our elders that are going to be involved in building these kingdom halls will be extremely appreciative.
And they'll be as excited as we are as a branch committee.
As we would expect coming to an agreement on a standard kingdom hall design is not a simple process.
You will find it adventurous to hear how this worked out in the United States branch.
So the group of us working on the design came from RBC backgrounds.
And we tried to apply RBC knowledge to this new approach.
There were several things about the old design that made it difficult to construct.
Addic spaces, pitched roofs, mechanical systems that were outside on the ground.
We were designing a residential structure and trying to put commercial systems into it.
So when we had the floor plan approved by the branch committee, the designers stated that it would then take us at least six months to work up the experience because of all of the complications.
And we said, well, six months is far too long. We need to shorten the time period down.
So we said, well, then let's start at five o'clock tomorrow morning. We're going to need to use as much time as we can.
So because there was this need to get a design developed very quickly, we decided to meet early in the morning.
Maintenance would weigh in, construction would weigh in, design weighed in, strategic planning.
All these groups had an input on us, so we would mean.
By the end of the day, the engineers had been able to get rid of all of the items that they felt were going to take them nearly six months to resolve and design into our existing kingdom halls.
So we then started to make some progress. We started to move ahead.
We haven't looked back. Just go, go, go now.
So we've gone from in the past ten standard designs now to one standard design with three sizes.
The mechanical systems, the lighting, all of the architectural components, structure, those are all the same no matter where you build this in the country.
What we'll have, though, is a small version, a standard version, and a large version.
By now being able to have a construction group, no matter where they're located in the US territory, to be building the same kingdom hall.
That means that you can move your construction groups around to wherever the needs are.
They're not having to relearn how to build a new kingdom hall. They're just continuing on in the same means and methods, building the same building that they're used to.
And as all of us are aware, the more often you do something, the faster you get at it.
It cuts down tremendously on those involved in estimating cuts down tremendously on the amount of people involved in purchasing.
We can place thousands of line items to a supplier in one order, knowing exactly what we need to build the kingdom hall.
Purchasing and global purchasing was really helpful in helping us see the wisdom and practicality of designing and selecting specific materials.
Not just a manufacturer, but a certain set of specific materials or products that manufacturers provided.
For example, the manufacturer was able to reduce the lead time.
Cost savings of about 40% on that one component have been seen.
And even when we had a problem just recently at an installation, the company flew a representative out the next day for no charge.
That wouldn't have been possible without the standardization and collaboration that's taken place.
So we're seeing this evidence of these huge reductions in price. That's a simple result. And a beautiful one at that.
By this point in the program, those in attendance were eager to learn how the new arrangement for kingdom halls would be put into effect throughout the branch territory.
Brother Jonathan Robbins, the overseer of the United States local design construction department, spoke on the subject new provisions to accelerate the work.
Maybe I can invite you to turn to that account in the book of First Chronicles.
Let's just pick up a few thoughts in chapter 28. First Chronicles, chapter 28, verse 12.
You notice how it begins there speaking of David. It says he gave him Solomon, the architectural plan.
So the plans would be established at the department. But what follows after that?
Well, put your eyes up to verse 11. Do you notice there more detail?
There was the plan of the porch, the houses, the storerooms, the roof chambers, the inner rooms.
So now here we have the whole scope of work. So you've got the plan, you've got the scope of work.
Now when you've got the scope of work, you need the material takeoff. Cast your eyes to verse 15.
Also the weight for the gold lamp stands, verse 16. Also the weight of the gold for the tables.
At the end of verse 17, the weight of the small silver bowls for each small bowl.
So now we've got the estimate, the material takeoff and an estimate. With that you can produce a budget.
And you look across to chapter 29 and you see verse 7 onwards. There they have now how much it's going to cost.
Now that's really what the LDC department is involved in is working out those kind of details.
So back to chapter 28, the end of verse 19, it says to put all the details of the architectural plan in writing.
So everything documented. And those full set of documented plans have been worked on the budgets, the cost estimates, the material takeoff.
These are part of the responsibilities of the department.
But something that might be coming to your mind is how can the branch committee who are situated here understand the real needs in the field.
They have to make decisions of where kingdom halls will be situated, the size of those kingdom halls, who will meet in them.
And we've discussed, well there's a master plan. And that master plan enables the branch committee to identify high need areas, identify kingdom halls that are in need of major innovation.
Because we carried out a countrywide survey of over 6,000 kingdom halls. They were inspected to work out what is the life expectancy before they need to be renovated.
But all of that information really is just clinical information. It's just clinical data that is taken in.
So how does the branch committee now make a decision? They need to understand the human side.
How does this affect the local brothers and sisters?
So another new provision is a role of special full-time service that refers to the local design construction representative.
Special full-time servants that are in the field, a brother, if married accompanied by his wife, that really are information gatherers, researchers.
And so he would meet with the local service committees of the various affected congregations to find out, well what are their needs?
What is the human side that will now be information that can be sent into the branch committee?
They can take the clinical data and the physical needs. And I make a decision that will address that in the finest way.
Let's look in on our next video that takes us into the work and life of a field representative.
What a field representative does, they provide a service to the congregation.
It could be that a new kingdom all needs to be built, a kingdom all needs to be remodeled.
Or it may be that the recommendation is that through moving congregations around or redistributing those congregations according to the
kingdom halls in the area, there perhaps no kingdom halls need to be built. So they're looking at what is the best recommendation to solve a specific problem.
A field representative's work begins when a need is identified, a need by a congregation or congregations meeting in a kingdom hall.
And really they would start by meeting with bodies of elders, trying to understand what really is needed, how best to address that need.
Initially in his first meetings with the bodies of elders, he would give an overview of what is the local design construction department, what does it do, what does the remote local design construction office do, how does he fit into that, how can they as a body of elders become part of it, how can they support the project, how can they encourage ones within their congregation to volunteer.
While you can get some clinical data at the branch level, you still need the human element. So the field representative meets with bodies of elders to determine certain information such as high crime areas, areas of racial bias, and any other information that they can get from those local bodies of elders to help make a recommendation that truly cares for everyone's interests.
The elders can count on the field representatives wanting to hear those opinions and relying on those opinions in developing the recommendations.
Field representatives are very much about gathering information. It's data so that good decisions can be made.
The field rep is going to go in and assess not just that kingdom hall, but all of the surrounding ones.
What is the need of that area, how are all the kingdom halls utilized, is there good growth in the area, or is there a percentage decrease?
Are there those that need to use public transportation, but where are the public transportation routes?
In this congregation are there people from an ethnic background that would feel uncomfortable moving into another part of the town because they would feel possibly vulnerable there or not wanted.
What is the age of the congregation? Is it a young, vibrant congregation, or does it have a lot of elderly, a lot of infirm?
If it's in a congested area, where are the rush hour traffic routes so that the friends are not traveling in the rush hour traffic to get to the kingdom hall?
So all that information is collected so that again the best recommendation can be made.
And their work would continue all the way until that needs filled. So if you took, for example, a new kingdom hall being needed, then they would be working with land acquisition, with permitting, with regulatory.
All the way up until there was a parcel of land ready to be built on.
Field representatives are a bit nomadic. They will move around the country, they will have to be mobile, almost carrying their office with them, and visiting with many bodies of elders, and trying to determine how do we truly assess and supply the information needed to make good decisions.
They all live modestly. I mean, some, depending on where they're serving, may live in some sort of special full-time servant housing. Others may be staying with friends, brothers and sisters locally.
In some places, the only option may be to rent a small apartment or something.
And you have similar spiritual benefits to Bethelite. We get to have morning worship streamed. We get watched tower family study. We're well taken care of, it's well taken care of spiritually.
And of course, like every other one of Jehovah's Witnesses, we get to be associated with the congregation and go out in the ministry and maintain our spiritual routine like everybody else.
We get up in the morning, we have breakfast, we have morning worship, and then we're either driving around looking for property or maybe scheduling meetings with brothers for congregations.
Part of the job of the field representative is to work regularly with the municipalities in the area in which they're assigned.
So they will be working with those individuals because they'll have many projects that they're working on, that they're developing, and that development will include the input of those municipalities.
So they'll also be working to establish relationships with those individuals.
It's fast paced, but it's an exciting work because you get to see a lot of things where Satan has built barriers to Jehovah's work being done.
And to see those barriers come down or be broken through is faith strengthening privilege.
I feel so grateful that the branch is so interested in all of us, brothers and sisters.
The most important thing that a field representative will have is their commitment to the work and their faith that this program is going to be successful.
This is going to be Jehovah's work done, Jehovah's way, and it will be on his might and by his Holy Spirit that we will be successful.
When you look at something like that, you may say that this LDC representative and his wife, they must be multi-talented property development professionals.
No, they're not.
These are spiritually minded individuals that rely upon Jehovah, rely upon his direction.
We know that Jehovah with his four vision can already see where these kingdom halls will be, and so they follow his direction.
At the same time, yes, reaching out to professionals for advice, for mentoring, for guidance, but having a very positive outlook.
We often refer to them as individuals that when someone says no to them, they understand that to be maybe.
They don't take the word as no.
So it's that kind of individual sees an obstacle, not as an obstacle, but something to get around, get over, and move forward with Jehovah's direction.
So we found the land, we've got it in the right place, we've got the permits for it, but how do we go about building it?
Well, handle construction, another new provision for our branch territory is construction groups.
But these are construction groups of eight persons made up of full-time servants, whether construction servants or volunteers, that work full-time for building the kingdom halls.
Assisted, cared for financially and physically, in a very similar manner as a Bethelite would be cared for.
The construction group is responsible for that project from breaking ground through the congregation taking occupancy of the kingdom hall.
That really is their responsibility.
The group overseer would be responsible for proving the budget and managing that budget, right, the way through to the conclusion.
You may say, can eight persons build a kingdom hall? Well, I suppose the simple answer is yes, but it's going to take them a very long time to do that.
So they need assistance, they need volunteers that can work along with them.
And so this is where they will reach out to local skilled volunteers who will be invited to come and work along with them.
But these eight individuals are not in a role where they just do administrative work. They will be physically working on the project.
These LDC volunteers that will be invited, they will need to have specific skills, tradesmen that would come to the site to work along with the group, remembering that the construction group is working full-time.
They are scheduled. They work from a Tuesday through to a Saturday.
And so individuals that would support them, they would be looking for brothers that could make themselves available during the week.
If their skill is needed and their trade is needed at a certain time, that job can't be left until the weekend.
We need to be done during the week. Equally, they will use the options of having contractors come to site.
Certain parts of the project may be contracted out. Maybe the site works. But they still take responsibility.
They take responsibility for the timing, the scheduling, the quality control.
So there will be a combination of usage so that these eight servants are supported to accomplish their task.
The size and scope of the work ahead is significant, not only in the United States but around the world.
Some have wondered how these construction servants and volunteers will be supported.
Good question. The next report provides the answer and addresses the question, how can I help?
We need to construct, remodel and maintain thousands of kingdom halls and other theocratic facilities all over the United States branch territory.
Who will spare head this work? Construction, servants and volunteers.
By other special full-time servants, these brothers and sisters willingly leave behind their friends, jobs, homes, congregations,
and sometimes even personal treasures to serve Jehovah more fully wherever they are needed. And they will be busy.
They'll have morning worship each day and a family watched our study each week.
Additionally, their daily work assignments, congregation privileges, and field ministry will also keep them active.
And they'll need to make time for some recreation as well. And perhaps even make time for sleep.
Their assignment likely sounds similar to an assignment at Bethel, but the comparisons don't stop there.
Just like Bethelites, construction, servants and volunteers will need provisions for rooming, meals, housekeeping, laundry dry cleaning, medical care, haircuts, and much more.
Of course, it's challenging to care for the needs of the Bethel family when they're all in one place.
But imagine providing similar services for volunteers and hundreds of locations all at once.
What a challenge. How will this be handled?
The local design construction department at Bethel in cooperation with the eight remote LDC offices will coordinate the work assignments and spiritual care for each volunteer.
However, local congregations receiving assistance will have the privilege to provide many or all of the personal services needed to support these willing volunteers.
With this arrangement, local congregations benefit from the hard work of these special full-time servants.
All while ensuring they can remain immersed in their assignment to provide assistance to congregations wherever and however they need it.
A sacrifice for all involved, but one that comes with many blessings.
But you may be wondering, how do I apply? How can I get involved in this program?
And so we want to take you through the different enrollments.
And we'd like to look at the first graphic that takes us into this.
And this is our construction volunteer.
The construction volunteer, as you can see here on your screen, the form is in the bottom right-hand corner. That is an 827.
And someone can be assigned for one week up to maybe six months as a volunteer and also receive physical and financial care in their assignment.
Spiritual men and women in good health, capable of doing hard physical work between the ages of 19 and 55 can apply.
Those with special skills over the age of 55, the branch committee may give special consideration if their skills are required.
The next enrollment is that of a construction servant.
You may notice there the application form is an A32.
You cannot apply to be a construction servant. You are invited after serving as a construction volunteer for two months.
You may receive an invitation to be a servant on a long-term basis.
The final approval for this appointment is from the personal committee of the governing body.
And this enrollment is a special full-time service.
The next enrollment is the local construction servant.
We'd like to look at the difference there with a local construction servant.
They're someone that can live in their own home, same application form.
They will have served as a volunteer and then can be appointed as a servant.
They're appointed for the duration of a project.
They could possibly live in their own home and work at one of the remote offices.
They could live in their own home and work on a few projects that are in their area.
But when those projects are over, their assignment then ends.
A new enrollment is the LDC volunteer.
The application form, the DC50, was uploaded to JW.org on Wednesday evening of this week.
And with it, there's an accompanying letter to be read to all congregations,
where it explains the fundamental differences between the construction volunteer and the LDC volunteer,
or the DC50 application.
This application replaces the Regional Building Committee volunteer application.
One we're familiar with is the S82 form.
On this application, you'll notice that it uses the expression that this is for an exemplary baptised
brother or sister with a some measure of needed skills or aptitude.
The applicant must be at least 17 years of age.
Exemplary, one who demonstrates an example worthy of imitation in such areas as meeting attendants,
zeal in the ministry, in respect and support of the body of elders.
They would then apply by means of the DC50 application.
A fifth enrollment is the congregation volunteer.
There's no application form for this enrollment.
This is for someone over the age of 17 that is in good standing within the congregation.
And they would work on their own congregation project or on one that is neighbouring their congregation.
And they would be approved by the service committee of their own congregation
and would be invited then to come to a project.
In good standing, one who is not under judicial restrictions or not bringing reproach upon the congregation.
So what a privilege we have to support this new arrangement.
And it certainly is exciting to see all of these forms of special full-time service
that are being extended within our branch territory.
And we can see two of many practical ways that we can support the arrangement.
Practical ways with regard to supporting it financially by means of our generous contributions.
Taking our minds back to the construction of the Temple by Solomon in the First Chronicles 29, verse 9.
It says that the people rejoiced over making these voluntary offerings.
So Jehovah knows what makes us truly happy.
He knows that giving of ourselves in service of him brings us great joy.
And certainly the LDC program offers us all numerous ways to demonstrate our love for our Heavenly Father.
Just as construction of our kingdom halls is important, so is the maintenance of these facilities.
Brother Jason Patterson, the assistant overseer of the United States Local Design Construction Department,
addressed this subject with this theme, maintaining the House of Jehovah.
This part highlighted new initiatives that will help us care for our theocratic facilities.
Brothers, I invite you to turn with me to Psalm chapter 66, beginning with verse 2.
Notice the description of worshiping Jehovah that's found here. Psalm 66, verse 2.
Sing praises to his glorious name. Make his praise glorious.
And then please notice verse 8.
Praise our God, you peoples, and let the sound of his praise be heard.
These are elements that take place within the walls of our kingdom halls.
It's the singing, the teaching, the learning, and certainly the praising of Jehovah God
that makes our kingdom halls the most important structure in the community.
There's a connection between our zeal for worship and our zeal for caring for our places of worship.
When I was asked to present this part on maintenance, I began to think about what is the objective of this part.
I thought, well, we could highlight the fact that maintaining our kingdom halls is a part of our sacred service.
And that's certainly accurate. Or perhaps we could focus on how it is the elders' responsibilities
and make sure that this work is cared for. And that would be a nice reminder for us.
But the primary objective of this part is this.
You brothers are extremely busy men, and you have many responsibilities that have been given to you.
How does this new program come to your assistance to help you in caring for the assignment to maintain the house of Jehovah?
Perhaps you've heard the expression that you cannot manage what you can't measure.
How do you truly measure what needs to be done and when it needs to be done at each of our kingdom halls?
Consider this illustration. When we buy a car, typically in the glove box of the car is an owner's manual.
At the back of the owner's manual is often a checklist of preventative or predictive maintenance items.
If an individual were to follow that list of items at the back of that, that would help to extend the life of the vehicle.
Which would certainly be far better than not knowing what needs to be done and then simply fixing it when it breaks.
Under this new arrangement, the maintenance of our theocratic facilities will now be following a unified process that is being implemented worldwide.
This includes facilities such as kingdom halls, assembly halls, remote translation offices, and other buildings.
We want to consider some aspects of this new process, though, especially as it relates to kingdom halls.
Although you may have an owner's manual in your car or the checklist in it, the car manufacturer does not send out a mechanic to help you understand how to go about maintaining your vehicle.
But under the new maintenance program, a gradual change will be taking place.
And that is this. Full-time servants known as maintenance trainers will visit and provide hands-on training to the elders and to the publishers in the congregation on what needs to be maintained and how to maintain it.
So in essence, it's like getting an owner's manual for your kingdom hall with someone who helps you to understand how to go about doing it.
A yearly schedule of items needing maintain will be created for each kingdom all for the elders to be able to manage and measure the workload.
Of course, the goal of all of this, then, is to extend the life of our buildings to conserve dedicated funds.
If it's found that a particular maintenance task is beyond the congregation's ability to care for it, the elders will be able to work with the remote office for their zone to be able to determine how best to take care of that matter.
Now, in addition, the training that will be received at the congregation level will include a focus on how performing our work in a safe manner will be expected.
And, in fact, the elders will see their role in setting a consistent standard and an expectation of safety.
It's a better understand some of the benefits and the details of what we're talking about.
We'd like to invite you brothers to enjoy the following video.
I think one of the biggest challenges is that is our attitude towards maintenance.
Usually, maintenance is something other people do, but we don't do it ourselves.
Maintenance generally is something that people shy away from. People love to build something new. They feel it's more challenging, more exciting.
Maintenance is viewed as a little bit secondary, second rate.
Not a scriptural thinking. We think that Jehovah created us to maintain. He put Adam in the garden to take care of it.
So, Jehovah created us genetically to take care of things. He takes care of everything.
So, we have often to overcome that mindset that many of us have inherited probably growing up in Satan's world.
Everything is throw away. It's all disposable. And so, we tend to get that kind of thinking, that kind of way of reacting.
So, that comes through to assembly halls, kingdom halls, that it's a challenge often to motivate the brothers to maintain.
Well, the LDC is trying to help with the workload by providing a nice way of scheduling the maintenance tasks that need to be done in focusing on preventative maintenance.
Throughout the year, rather than letting everything pile up all at once, there's so much that needs to get done.
But under this new program, we have a yearly schedule now that helps to get all these things done in organized way.
Well, the schedule allows these tasks to be delegated to the different brothers and sisters that are in the congregation.
And so, if they can just visibly see what needs to be done and start taking them upon themselves to take care of those items, they've been assigned them.
Well, now you've spread that workload out. Instead of having it fall on just a handful of brothers in the congregation who can easily get overworked.
With just a little bit of time on the weekend, you'd be surprised what can get accomplished.
Well, we have maintenance trainers that will come around, and every kingdom hall in the United States will be visited.
The elders will be invited along with specialty brothers, and then those brothers will be trained on, you know, the schedule, the job cards, what to look for.
And then in turn, they will train rest of the publishers in their congregations on how they can assist with maintaining their house of worship.
Our role as kingdom hall maintenance trainers is to isolate individuals within an area and train them how to train the congregation.
They're going to find locally tradesmen who have experience as electricians, as plumbers, with heat and air.
And those brothers are going to come in and they're going to bring in the congregation, the friends from within the congregation, and they're going to train them how to be able to learn to service an electrical panel, how to change a filter on a heat and air unit.
Training done at the local congregation level includes such things as mechanical, electrical, plumbing systems.
There can be some of the carpentry issues that may come up, the parking lot, the landscaping.
It's really, and how does the building function? And what is necessary to keep that building in good working order?
The maintenance program is not a team of brothers that come around to maintain the assembly hall.
It's not a team of brothers that are coming to maintain the kingdom hall.
They're coming to train the local congregation, to train those volunteers at the assembly hall how to maintain it themselves.
So it is an entire training program.
So you have qualified tradesmen that give hands on training, one-on-one, on how to carry out all of the maintenance functions, for instance, in a kingdom hall.
And we don't just do it once, it's now ongoing. We keep coming back and back and back constantly training the brothers and sisters.
It's not just a select group. Everybody that has a circumstance is able to come and learn and use that training to keep Jehovah's House looking good.
And when it looks good, we know that we're happy, but it really brings praise and glory to Jehovah.
We're finding that this program is actually helping many of our young people because it is sort of trying to close the gap between many of our young people.
That for whatever reasons don't aren't interested in construction or maintenance of buildings.
So this sort of opens their eyes to some of the many aspects that there are in maintenance.
With our older friends, we realize that they have the most experience of anyone when it comes to maintenance.
Over their experience, their years and other projects, they've learned that if you ignore one thing, it just gets compounded and becomes worse.
While we saw sisters being trained, for example, on working doors, and before it used to just be hardware that people would see this little metal box on the top of the door,
and now we know that the door closure, that's hardware for that, and sisters know how to adjust it.
And sisters know how to, how it eases closure, why it's important.
They will never look at a door the same way, and that's what we want to happen at Kingdom Halls.
We want people to be trained to such a point that immediately if something is starting to break or something is starting to fall apart,
anybody will notice it and say, hey, you know what, that needs to be fixed, and I know how to do that.
There are going to be tens of thousands of RBC volunteers that are going to wonder where, where do they fit into this new program.
And there's a tremendous need for those brothers and sisters that are willing and able to care for existing Kingdom Halls.
Their own Kingdom Hall is an example.
Everybody gets to get involved.
Whether you're small, whether you're young or older, there are tasks that are not physically demanding and not time intensive.
So there's going to be a portion of the maintenance for everybody in the congregation.
We need to keep training people, and for those who may not be working on Kingdom Halls as directly,
before they throw in the towel, think about your local Kingdom Hall.
I think this program, what I've seen from it, is similar to when we learn a new biblical truth,
and sometimes we're like, oh, I didn't see this coming, or I didn't expect this,
and then we analyze the information and it clicks, and you say, of course, it makes so much sense.
And this program is similar, because it may be a little foreign at first,
but as soon as you're involved in it, that's your reaction, of course, it makes complete sense.
And so the attitudes are going to change, of course, we're going to be more united,
because everyone's going to be taking care of their places of worship exactly the same way,
and that's going to only bring about more blessings and more growth.
In actual fact, the greatest investment in this organization is caring for what we already have,
not for what we need.
We have more than 60,000 Kingdom Halls worldwide.
If we can extend the maintenance cycle of our Kingdom Halls worldwide just by one year,
we save the organization $80 million a year just by pushing on a renovation cycle by one year.
So there, if our brothers and sisters can become involved in the maintenance of their Kingdom Hall
and surrounding Kingdom Halls, that we are a phenomenal blessing to the organization
and a huge economic saving.
When things are clean, you're drawn to it.
If your car is clean, or if somebody else's car is clean, you're drawn to it.
And I think with the Kingdom Halls, it's the same way.
If somebody drives by and the grass is moat, it looks good, it's all trimmed up,
it's all pated nice, you're just drawn to that.
And people in the world just don't care sometimes, but we as Jehovah people, we care.
So as we maintain our Kingdom Halls, all it takes is one person to drive by and say,
I want to see what makes them different.
And that cleanliness might be just a thing that draws them in.
So some of you, you may not work directly with building or renovating Kingdom Halls.
Some of you may never be filled representatives.
Some of you may not serve on a construction group.
But brothers, it's going to take the efforts of all of us to be able to live up to the words of Nehemiah chapter 10 verse 39,
where it says,
we will not neglect the house of our God.
So Jehovah's name is proudly displayed on our Kingdom Halls.
When we invite others to attend our meetings, how gratifying to be able to do so with confidence
that what they observe there properly represents Jehovah and his organization.
The earth will last forever.
Mankind was assigned to take care of it.
Therefore, maintenance is an assignment that will be carried out forever by all true worshipers.
So how delighted Jehovah must be when he sees us demonstrate that attitude now
by maintaining his house with seal.
Brother Stephen led a member of the governing body, presented the final part of our program for the day.
We invite you to enjoy his discussion of the theme, a united workforce of theocratic activity.
I would just like to say first that it is a real pleasure to be able to talk for a few minutes to all of you dear ones
who obviously loved Jehovah very much.
And you're not just saying that you love him.
You are proving it by your hard work.
Speaking in behalf of the governing body, I would like to tell all of you that we love you very much
and we appreciate very much what you are doing.
But now as mentioned, the theme of my little discussion is a united workforce for theocratic activity.
Much of our program today has highlighted the fulfillment of the words recorded in Isaiah chapter 60, verse 22,
concerning the small one becoming a mighty nation.
Let us reread this timely scripture.
Isaiah 60, verse 22,
the little one will become a thousand and the small one a mighty nation.
I myself Jehovah will speed it up in its own time.
Did you know at present this nation of true worshipers is more populous than a considerable number of the world's sovereign states?
And as a result of Jehovah's powerful Holy Spirit, it is a mighty nation, more mighty than any of the world's sovereign states.
So think about it. We're more populous than many were mightier than all the sovereign states of this world.
Clearly, Jehovah God using his son Jesus Christ is directing the kingdom work and is speeding it up.
Recall in the scripture, we just read that Jehovah said, I myself will speed it up in its own time.
He didn't say that the governing body would speed it up. It is Jehovah's work.
The faithful slave is merely a tool in his hand to accomplish his work.
The peace and unity existing among God's people, as you know, continues to attract millions of honest-hearted ones.
What a thrill it is to be alive during the worldwide expansion of true worship and to have a part in it.
It is a privilege we will cherish for all eternity.
This increase brings glory to Jehovah, who promised that this increase would come.
Let us consider three effects of this rapid expansion.
The first effect, because of the formation of new congregations every week,
Jehovah's people need to continue to maintain existing kingdom halls and need to build thousands of new ones.
As you know, many kingdom halls are being used beyond their capacity.
We have four even five congregations and some single kingdom halls.
And you can just imagine what happens when the circuit owes your visits or when a maintenance project needs to be carried out.
Therefore, in order for the growing demand to be met, the governing body has approved an arrangement for the accelerated design, construction, and maintenance of kingdom halls.
Today, you received an exciting glimpse into how this program will function in your branch territory.
The arrangement will bring greater unity to the organization's approach to construction not only here in the United States, but also all around the world.
As a mighty nation of dedicated servants, Jehovah's people are truly building without borders.
And in that beautiful thought, building without borders, when you think about the contrast in the world, how segmented, how fragmented they are with our borders and other divisions, we are building without borders.
The message found in Ephesians chapter 4 verses 4 through 6 reminds us of the reason for this unity.
There it speaks of one spirit, one Lord, one faith, one God and Father of all who is overall.
Does it not make sense that worshipers of the God and Father who is overall would have a united means of caring for and building physical buildings needed to facilitate pure worship?
What only makes sense, doesn't it?
But now let's get our second effect.
The Regional Building Committee, RBC arrangement, has produced thousands of beautiful houses of worship.
But as kingdom halls were being built throughout the United States branch territory, the number of publishers increased even further.
That growth required yet more kingdom halls as that pattern continued.
The efforts of those who worked under the RBC arrangement have contributed greatly as the little one has become a thousand.
And we'd all take for granted, we really appreciate what has been done under the RBC arrangement.
But why then, is there a need for a new program?
Well, for one reason, and it's just one example, buying property and obtaining necessary government approvals are often much more complex today than in the past.
And that's just one example of the complexities that make it more difficult, more challenging to build kingdom halls today than previously.
In many areas of the United States branch territory, such complexities have made it impractical to accomplish the work with only part-time volunteers.
For this reason, the governing body gave direction that full-time volunteers and special full-time servants be appointed in order to keep pace with the urgent needs.
We are confident of Jehovah's blessing on this new arrangement.
It is so face strengthening to see you, brothers, loyally working hard and keeping in step with changing circumstances.
You are working hard to keep pace with Jehovah's fast-moving chariot, and that's what the governing body is trying to do.
We are just trying to keep up with Jehovah's fast-paced chariot.
The October 15, 2014 watchtower made this comment on page 25.
It said, at times, organizational adjustments need to be made.
In recent years, a number of branch offices have been merged with others.
Those such changes require that the brothers and sisters serving at these branches make adjustments before long the advantages of the changes become clear to all involved.
What a joy it is for such willing workers to play a part in the ongoing history of Jehovah's people.
Well, this new program is similarly a part of our ongoing theocratic history.
Well, let's move to our third effect.
There's a lot of work to be accomplished.
As we near the end of this system of things and the number of kingdom proclaimers increases, there is an urgent need for more facilities.
So, the question logically arises, how can we have the greatest possible share in this work that urgently needs to be done now?
We'll consider five ways.
Number one, simplify your life and become available full-time if at all possible.
As recorded at first Chronicles 22-7, David said that it was his heart's desire to build a house for Jehovah's name.
See, in his heart, he was motivated. He wanted to build a house for Jehovah's name.
Although his role in that building was not what he expected, he did all he could to contribute.
Jehovah gave him by inspiration the architectural plan for the temple.
He was able to amass many of the materials that would be used in the building and of course he motivated his son Solomon to move ahead in the building work.
So, he did what he could to contribute because his heart motivated him.
Well, like David, make it a matter of prayer to increase your heart's desire to help build facilities to the glory of Jehovah's name as you resolve to do all that your circumstances will allow.
You will never regret it.
If you talk to others who have simplified their lives in order to do more in sacred service, they will always tell you that it was one of the best decisions they have ever made and that they have no regrets.
Or if they do express a regret interestingly, it is that they didn't do it sooner.
They just wish sooner they had simplified their lives to make themselves available full time.
But let's talk about a second way we can have a fuller share, support the work personally as much as you can, but also encourage others to participate in it.
As you get that, encourage others to participate in this work.
At 2 Samuel 1937, an older man, Barzilli, recommended the younger man, Kim Hem, to assist King David.
Barzilli modestly understood that despite what his heart may have wanted to do, he had limitations.
And no wonder the Bible tells us that he was 80 years old, yet he was quick to make and support the recommendation of another loyal servant of Jehovah.
Indeed, Barzilli is a fine example of modesty and support for Jehovah's service.
Well, let's move to a third way we can have a fuller share.
Contribute Monaterally
2 Corinthians 8 13 through 15 speaks of an equalizing that took place in the first century.
And it was a real demonstration of Christian love.
One group surplus offset another's deficiency.
So that, as the Bible says, the person with much did not have too much.
And the person with little did not have too little.
Paul's words to the Corinthians applied on an international scale.
If you think about it, he was encouraging the Christians in Corinth to help financially their needy brothers in Judea.
Similarly today, with the consolidation of the loan arrangement, Jehovah's people around the world are equalized and linked more closely than ever before.
The governing body is confident that the brotherhood will continue to honor Jehovah generously, with their valuable things, as encouraged at Proverbs 3 verse 9.
Of course, in addition, each of us should continue to do our very best to ensure that these dedicated funds are used wisely.
But now let's get our fourth way. We can have a fuller share.
Continue to preach without let up.
In accord with Matthew 28, 19 and 20, the preaching and teaching work is the primary commission from our king.
Kingdom halls in themselves, as you know, do not save lives. Now they can help us save lives, but the kingdom hall in itself will not save lives.
See, it is the carrying out of the spirit authorized work of preaching and teaching that results in the saving of lives.
But if you think about the critical need for more kingdom halls gives evidence that you and Jehovah's people as a whole are taking this assignment seriously.
So regardless of how busy you are in building kingdom halls, all of us must also stay focused on the preaching, teaching, and the simple making work.
Well, let's move to our fifth way. We can have a fuller share.
Keep these exciting adjustments that are being made in your prayers.
James chapter 5 verse 16 says this, the B part.
A righteous man's supplication has a powerful effect.
Yes, a righteous man's supplication has a powerful effect.
So pray for these adjustments that Jehovah will bless them and your prayers will have a powerful effect.
So there we have five ways that we can have a fuller share in what is being accomplished by this unified workforce for theocratic activity in review.
One, endeavor to simplify your life so as to become available full time if at all possible.
Number two, in addition to supporting the work personally as much as we can, encourage others to participate in it.
Number three, generously contribute monetarily in harmony with our circumstances.
Number four, continue to preach without let up.
Number five, pray for a Jehovah's continued rich blessings upon these exciting adjustments that are being implemented.
All involved in the acceleration of the construction of kingdom halls are very dear to the governing body.
We are confident in Jehovah's backing of his work as we said before is his work.
And while there is much work to accomplish, what a grand privilege to be used by him by Jehovah.
But how will we get it all done? Well, our Heavenly Father gives us confidence with the words of Isaiah 26 verse 12.
I notice the confidence he gives us with this scripture. Isaiah 26, 12.
O Jehovah, you will grant us peace because now notice everything we have done, you have accomplished for us.
Let's repeat that. Jehovah says everything we have done, he has accomplished for us.
At least Jehovah's work isn't. And as guaranteed in this scripture, he will empower us to get his work done.
The governing body thanks you dearly for your continued sacrifices in behalf of kingdom interest.
We continue to rely fully on Jehovah God to direct our path. And very soon, where is that path going to lead us?
It's going to lead us right through the end of this wicked system and into the new world.
Those who have remained busy now in the work of the Lord will continue as God's fellow workers.
At that time in the new world, as a unified workforce, you will be thrilled to direct your attention to a new work assignment.
What will that new work assignment be making the earth into a beautiful paradise?
We greatly appreciate this practical information.
Everywhere we go, our brothers and sisters are excited about the changes being made with regard to construction of theocratic facilities.
It is a privilege to work shoulder to shoulder with you as we all do our small part in this magnificent work that Jehovah is accomplishing in these last days.
Thank you for joining us. This is JW Broadcasting in Brooklyn, New York.